Add section in docs for initializing a tracer (#2481)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go: website_docs/manual.md

Instrumentation is the process of adding observability code to your application. There are two general types of instrumentation - automatic, and manual - and you should be familiar with both in order to effectively instrument your software.

## Getting a Tracer

To create spans, you'll need to acquire or initialize a tracer first.

### Initiallizing a new tracer

Ensure you have the right packages installed:

```
go get go.opentelemetry.io/otel \
  go.opentelemetry.io/otel/trace \
  go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk \
```

Then initialize an exporter, resources, tracer provider, and finally a tracer.

```go
package app

import (
	"context"
	"fmt"
	"log"

	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/resource"
	sdktrace "go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/trace"
	semconv "go.opentelemetry.io/otel/semconv/v1.7.0"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/trace"
)

> var (
> 	tracer trace.Tracer
> )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
var tracer trace.Tracer
```

func newExporter(ctx context.Context)  /* (someExporter.Exporter, error) */ {
	// Your preferred exporter: console, jaeger, zipkin, OTLP, etc.
}

> func newTraceProvider(exp *otlptrace.Exporter) *sdktrace.TracerProvider {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
func newTraceProvider(exp sdktrace.SpanExporter) *sdktrace.TracerProvider {
```

    // The service.name attribute is required.

> 	resource :=
> 		resource.NewWithAttributes(
> 			semconv.SchemaURL,
> 			semconv.ServiceNameKey.String("ExampleService"),
> 		)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	resource := resource.NewWithAttributes(
		semconv.SchemaURL,
		semconv.ServiceNameKey.String("ExampleService"),
	)
```

	return sdktrace.NewTracerProvider(
		sdktrace.WithBatcher(exp),
		sdktrace.WithResource(resource),
	)
}

func main() {
	ctx := context.Background()

	exp, err := newExporter(ctx)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalf("failed to initialize exporter: %v", err)
	}

	// Create a new tracer provider with a batch span processor and the given exporter.
	tp := newTraceProvider(exp)

> 	// Handle shutdown properly so nothing leaks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	// Handle shutdown properly so nothing leaks.
```

	defer func() { _ = tp.Shutdown(ctx) }()

	otel.SetTracerProvider(tp)

> 	// Finally, set the tracer that can be used for this package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	// Finally, set the tracer that can be used for this package.
```

Instrumentation is the process of adding observability code to your application. There are two general types of instrumentation - automatic, and manual - and you should be familiar with both in order to effectively instrument your software.

## Initializing a Tracer

To create spans, you'll need to initialize a tracer first. Some important things to consider:

> * Tracers should live at the module level and have a lifecycle congruent to an app's lifecycle

Reviewer 2: If you mean `Tracer` here, they should generally be package-scoped and not module-scoped.  The lifecycle of a `Tracer` is more dependent on its associated `TracerProvider` than anything else, even though there isn't a clear mechanism for a stopped `TracerProvider` to stop a `Tracer`.  The `Tracer` will simply cease to create exported spans.

> * There should only be one tracer per module

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* There should only be one tracer per package
```

One `Tracer` per module is almost certainly not correct.  One `Tracer` per package is possibly correct, but I'm not sure I would even go as far as to say there should only be one per package.  That may be the most common scenario, but there are absolutely scenarios where multiple `Tracer`s, and even `TracerProvider`s are needed from a single package and I'm not sure we should be prescriptive about their cardinality.

> * Tracers need to be shut down when a program ends

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `TracerProvider`s need to be shut down no later than when a program ends
```

> * You'll need an [exporter]({{< relref "exporting_data" >}}) to create a Tracer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You'll need an [exporter]({{< relref "exporting_data" >}}) to create a `TracerProvider`
```

Though even this isn't true.  The collector's `zpages` component uses a `TracerProvider` that currently does not export but does have an associated `SpanProcessor` that enables the `zpages` component to show in-flight traces.

Author: Are there other user scenarios that involve initializing a tracer where they don't want traces to export anywhere?

Reviewer 2: `Tracer` or `TracerProvider`?  The `Tracer` is an API construct to be used by instrumentation without regard for, or even knowledge of, whether or how an SDK is configured.  An API `TracerProvider` is used similarly by instrumentation but an SDK `TracerProvider` must be intentionally configured by the application author/operator.  There are probably other situations where an application author would want to initialize an SDK `TracerProvider` without a `SpanProcessor` that results in exporting span data, though I can't enumerate them off the top of my head.

> * You'll need to create Resources at trace initialization time

Reviewer 2: Do you mean `TracerProvider` here where you say "tracer"?  Many of these statements are not true of `Tracer`s but are true of `TracerProvider`s.

> * You'll need to create Resources at trace initialization time

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You'll want to create Resources at `TracerProvider` initialization time as they cannot be changed later
```

First, ensure you have the right packages installed:

```
go get go.opentelemetry.io/otel \
  go.opentelemetry.io/otel/trace \
  go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk \
```

> Ensure you have an [exporter]({{< relref "exporting_data" >}}) configured, then

Author: delete

import (
	"context"
	"fmt"
	"log"

	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/resource"
	sdktrace "go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/trace"
	semconv "go.opentelemetry.io/otel/semconv/v1.7.0"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/trace"
)

var (
	tracer trace.Tracer
)

func newExporter(ctx context.Context)  /* (someExporter.Exporter, error) */ {
	// Your preferred exporter: console, jaeger, zipkin, OTLP, etc.
}

func newTraceProvider(exp *otlptrace.Exporter) *sdktrace.TracerProvider {
    // The service.name attribute is required.
	resource :=
		resource.NewWithAttributes(
			semconv.SchemaURL,
			semconv.ServiceNameKey.String("ExampleService"),
		)

	return sdktrace.NewTracerProvider(
		sdktrace.WithBatcher(exp),
		sdktrace.WithResource(resource),
	)
}

func main() {
	ctx := context.Background()

	exp, err := newExporter(ctx)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalf("failed to initialize exporter: %v", err)
	}

	// Create a new tracer provider with a batch span processor and the given exporter.
	tp := newTraceProvider(exp)

	// Handle shutdown properly so nothing leaks
	defer func() { _ = tp.Shutdown(ctx) }()

	otel.SetTracerProvider(tp)

> 	// Finally, set the tracer that can be used throughout the app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	// Finally, set the tracer that can be used for this package
```

It might be useful to have additional examples for acquiring a `Tracer` from the global `TracerProvider` in an instrumentation package and/or from the `TracerProvider` associated with a `Span` extracted from a context.
